The President:
Tuesday is Election Day, and here in Washington,
the talk is all about who will
win and who will lose --
about parties and politics.
But around kitchen tables, I'm
pretty sure you're talking about
other things: about your family
finances,
or maybe the state of the
economy in your hometown;
about your kids, and what their
futures will bring.
And your hope is that once this
election is over,
the folks you choose to represent you will put politics
aside for a while, and work together to solve problems.
That's my hope, too.
Whatever the outcome on Tuesday,
we need to come together to help
put people who are still looking
for jobs back to work.
And there are some practical
steps we can take right away to
promote growth and encourage
businesses to hire and expand.
These are steps we all should be
able to agree on --
not Democratic or Republican
ideas,
but proposals that have
traditionally been supported by
both parties.
We ought to provide continued
tax relief for middle class
families who have borne the
brunt of the recession.
We ought to allow businesses to
defer taxes on the equipment
they buy next year.
And we ought to make the
research and experimentation tax
credit bigger and permanent -- to spur innovation and foster
new products and technologies.
Beyond these near-term steps, we
should work together to tackle
the broader challenges facing
our country --
so that we remain competitive
and prosperous in a global economy.
That means ensuring that our
young people have the skills and
education to fill the jobs of a
new age.
That means building new
infrastructure --
from high-speed trains to
high-speed internet --
so that our economy has room to
grow.
And that means fostering a
climate of innovation and
entrepreneurship that will allow
American businesses and American
workers to lead in growth
industries like clean energy.
On these issues -- issues that will determine our success or
failure in this new century -- I believe it's the fundamental
responsibility of all who hold elective office to seek out
common ground.
It may not be always easy to
find agreement;
at times we'll have legitimate
philosophical differences.
And it may not always be the
best politics.
But it's the right thing to do
for our country.
That's why I found the recent
comments by the top two
Republicans in Congress so
troubling.
The Republican leader of the
House actually said that "this
is not the time for compromise."
And the Republican leader of the
Senate said his main goal after
this election is simply to win
the next one.
I know that we're in the final
days of a campaign.
So it's not surprising that
we're seeing this heated rhetoric.
That's politics.
But when the ballots are cast
and the voting is done,
we need to put this kind of
partisanship aside --
win, lose, or draw.
In the end, it comes down to a
simple choice.
We can spend the next two years
arguing with one another,
trapped in stale debates, mired
in gridlock,
unable to make progress in
solving the serious problems
facing our country.
We can stand still while our
competitors --
like China and others around the
world --
try to pass us by, making the
critical decisions that will
allow them to gain an edge in
new industries.
Or we can do what the American
people are demanding that we do.
We can move forward.
We can promote new jobs and
businesses by harnessing the
talents and ingenuity of our
people.
We can take the necessary steps
to help the next generation --
instead of just worrying about
the next election.
We can live up to an allegiance
far stronger than our membership
in any political party.
And that's the allegiance we
hold to our country.
Thanks.